update doc, add information on Calimero console and tutorial (#25)
calimero-is-near/docs: docs/getting_started/dashboard.md

---
title: Console Dashboard
sidebar_position: 3
---

> The [Console](https://app.calimero.network/dashboard) dashboard is your gateway to managing your Calimero Private Shard. Here you can access all the information about your nodes, indexers and services. The dashboard also provides users with access to important information such as the RPC and Indexer GraphQL URL endpoints, as well as basic statistics about the network, including current block height, number of transactions, and number of accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Console](https://app.calimero.network/dashboard) dashboard is your gateway to managing your Calimero Private Shard. Here you can access all the information about your nodes and services. The dashboard also provides users with access to important information such as the RPC and Indexer GraphQL URL endpoints, as well as basic statistics about the network, including current block height, number of transactions, and number of accounts.
```
Indexers are nodes.
As well as RPCs, as well as validators

> If your infrastructure needs grow, you can use the Console to scale up the number of validators, RPCs, and indexers running on your network. This ensures that your network can handle increased traffic as your business grows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your infrastructure needs to grow, you can use the Console to scale up the number of validators, RPCs, and indexers running on your network. This ensures that your network can handle increased traffic as your business grows.
```

> If your infrastructure needs grow, you can use the Console to scale up the number of validators, RPCs, and indexers running on your network. This ensures that your network can handle increased traffic as your business grows.

Reviewer: This should also have a banner saying it's not currently supported, but will be when the Professional plan is introduced

> - **Environment**: This refers to either Testnet or Mainnet blockchain environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment**: This refers to either Testnet or Mainnet environment.
```
Blockchain is unnecessary.
It's difficult to convey this info, but we should try to somehow note that testnet/mainnet affects only the bridging part.
If the shard is used without going to the public blockchain, then the difference is just in the shard name (does it have `-testnet` suffix or not)

Author: let me do this in a seperate PR

> - **Account**: This refers to the total number of account you have in each shard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Accounts**: This refers to the total number of account you have in each shard
```

- **Validators**: This refers to the number of active validator node currently participating in the consensus process of validating transactions and creating new blocks in the blockchain network.
- **Block height**:  This refers to the number of blocks that have been added to the blockchain within that specific private shard.

> - **Transactions**: This refers to all transactions(_FUNCTION_CALL, CREATE_ACCOUNT, ADD_KEY, TRANSFER_ etc) you have made in the shard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transactions**: This refers to all transactions(_FUNCTION_CALL, CREATE_ACCOUNT, ADD_KEY, TRANSFER_ etc) executed in the shard.
```
The number is not personalized, and there the console account is not linked to the blockchain account

> - **Environment**: This refers to either Testnet or Mainnet blockchain environment.
> - **Account**: This refers to the total number of account you have in each shard
> - **Validators**: This refers to the number of active validator node currently participating in the consensus process of validating transactions and creating new blocks in the blockchain network.
> - **Block height**:  This refers to the number of blocks that have been added to the blockchain within that specific private shard.
> - **Transactions**: This refers to all transactions(_FUNCTION_CALL, CREATE_ACCOUNT, ADD_KEY, TRANSFER_ etc) you have made in the shard.
> - **RPC Node count**: This refers to the number of active RPC node currently running and is able to respond to requests from clients to execute specific procedures or functions on the blockchain network.
> - **Event Indexer**: This refers to the number of active indexers currently listening to the blockchain network and capturing relevant data about specific events generated by smart contracts or other transactions on the blockchain network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment**: either Testnet or Mainnet blockchain environment.
- **Account**: total number of account you have in each shard
- **Validators**: number of active validator node currently participating in the consensus process of validating transactions and creating new blocks in the blockchain network.
- **Block height**:  number of blocks that have been added to the blockchain within that specific private shard.
- **Transactions**: all transactions(_FUNCTION_CALL, CREATE_ACCOUNT, ADD_KEY, TRANSFER_ etc) you have made in the shard.
- **RPC Node count**: number of active RPC node currently running and is able to respond to requests from clients to execute specific procedures or functions on the blockchain network.
- **Event Indexer**: number of active indexers currently listening to the blockchain network and capturing relevant data about specific events generated by smart contracts or other transactions on the blockchain network.
```
No need to repeat ourselves
